README.md, before:

# Cloud Voyage Portfolio

A modern, space-themed portfolio website built with React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS. Showcase your AWS cloud expertise, projects, and skills with an interactive, responsive design.

## Project Overview

**Cloud Voyage Portfolio** is a professional portfolio website for cloud engineers and AWS specialists. It features a modern design with smooth animations, responsive layout, and direct contact links to social profiles.

### Key Features

- 🚀 **Modern React Stack** - Built with React 18, TypeScript, and Vite
- 🎨 **Beautiful UI** - Tailwind CSS with custom space-themed design
- 📱 **Fully Responsive** - Optimized for desktop, tablet, and mobile
- ✨ **Smooth Animations** - Scroll-triggered fade-in effects and twinkle animations
- 🔧 **AWS Showcase** - Display AWS projects, technologies, and expertise
- 📧 **Direct Contact Links** - Email, phone, LinkedIn, and GitHub integration
- ⚡ **Fast Performance** - Optimized builds with Vite and CloudFront CDN

### Technology Stack

| Category | Technologies |
|----------|---------------|
| **Frontend Framework** | React 18.3.1, TypeScript 5.8.3 |
| **Build Tool** | Vite 5.4.19 |
| **Styling** | Tailwind CSS 3.4.17, PostCSS |
| **UI Components** | shadcn/ui (60+ components), Lucide Icons |
| **Forms & Validation** | React Hook Form 7.61.1, Zod 3.25.76 |
| **Routing** | React Router DOM 6.30.1 |
| **State & Data** | TanStack React Query 5.83.0 |
| **Deployment** | AWS S3, CloudFront, Terraform |

## Getting Started

### Local Development

**Prerequisites:**
- Node.js v18+ ([Install](https://nodejs.org/))
- npm or Bun package manager

**Setup Instructions:**

```bash
# 1. Clone the repository
git clone <YOUR_GIT_URL>
cd cloud-voyage-portfolio

# 2. Install dependencies
npm install
# or with Bun:
bun install

# 3. Start the development server
npm run dev

# 4. Open your browser
# Navigate to http://localhost:8080
```

The development server includes hot module replacement (HMR) for instant updates as you edit files.

### Build for Production

```bash
# Build optimized production files
npm run build

# Preview the production build locally
npm run preview
```

The build output will be in the `dist/` directory, ready to deploy.

## Project Structure

```
cloud-voyage-portfolio/
├── src/
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── Navigation.tsx        # Top navigation bar
│   │   ├── Starfield.tsx         # Animated starfield background
│   │   ├── ProjectCard.tsx       # Project showcase component
│   │   ├── ContactForm.tsx       # Contact details component
│   │   ├── SkillIcon.tsx         # Skill display component
│   │   └── ui/                   # shadcn/ui components (60+)
│   ├── pages/
│   │   ├── Index.tsx             # Main landing page
│   │   └── NotFound.tsx          # 404 page
│   ├── hooks/
│   │   ├── use-toast.ts          # Toast notifications
│   │   └── use-mobile.tsx        # Mobile detection
│   ├── lib/
│   │   └── utils.ts              # Utility functions
│   ├── assets/
│   │   └── space-hero.jpg        # Hero background image
│   ├── App.tsx                   # Root component
│   ├── main.tsx                  # Entry point
│   └── index.css                 # Global styles
├── public/
│   ├── favicon.ico
│   ├── robots.txt
│   └── placeholder.svg
├── terraform/
│   ├── main.tf                   # AWS infrastructure
│   ├── variables.tf              # Input variables
│   ├── outputs.tf                # Output values
│   └── terraform.tfvars.example  # Configuration template
├── package.json                  # Dependencies & scripts
├── vite.config.ts                # Vite configuration
├── tailwind.config.ts            # Tailwind CSS config
├── tsconfig.json                 # TypeScript config
└── README.md                      # This file
```

## Available Scripts

```bash
npm run dev          # Start development server (port 8080)
npm run build        # Build production files
npm run build:dev    # Build in development mode
npm run preview      # Preview production build locally
npm run lint         # Run ESLint
```

## Portfolio Sections

### Hero Section
Eye-catching introduction with your name, tagline, and call-to-action buttons to view work or get in touch.

### Projects Section
Showcase up to 4 AWS cloud projects with:
- Project title and description
- Technologies used (AWS services, frameworks, tools)
- GitHub and live project links
- Responsive card layout

### About Section
Professional background information with key metrics:
- Years of experience
- Certifications (AWS Cloud Practitioner, CISA, etc.)
- Core competencies
- Professional summary

### Skills Section
Display 6 core skill areas with icons:
- Cloud Computing (AWS Solutions Architecture)
- Cybersecurity (Security & Compliance)
- Networking (Network Architecture)
- Auditing (Compliance Monitoring)
- Technical Support (Customer Success)
- Collaboration (Team Leadership)

### Resume Section
Provide downloadable resume PDF with a prominent call-to-action button.

### Contact Section
Direct contact links including:
- Email address
- Phone number
- LinkedIn profile
- GitHub profile

## Deployment Options

### Option 1: Lovable Platform (Default)

Lovable provides built-in hosting and continuous deployment:

1. Visit [Lovable Project](https://lovable.dev/projects/189f3443-d711-4342-8747-b296e134b715)
2. Click **Share → Publish**
3. Optionally connect a custom domain in Project Settings

Learn more: [Custom Domain Setup](https://docs.lovable.dev/features/custom-domain)

### Option 2: AWS with Terraform (Production)

Deploy to AWS S3 + CloudFront for a scalable, cost-effective solution with CDN, HTTPS, and custom domain support.

**For detailed deployment instructions, see [deployment.md](./deployment.md)**

**Quick start:**

```bash
# 1. Build the site
npm run build

# 2. Setup Terraform variables
cd terraform
cp terraform.tfvars.example terraform.tfvars
# Edit terraform.tfvars with your S3 bucket name

# 3. Deploy infrastructure
terraform init
terraform apply

# 4. Deploy files to S3
aws s3 sync ../dist/ s3://YOUR-BUCKET-NAME/ --delete

# 5. Invalidate CloudFront cache
aws cloudfront create-invalidation \
  --distribution-id YOUR-DISTRIBUTION-ID \
  --paths "/*"

# 6. Access your site
# https://YOUR-CLOUDFRONT-DOMAIN.cloudfront.net
```

## AWS Infrastructure

The Terraform configuration creates:

- **S3 Bucket** - Stores static website files with versioning enabled
- **CloudFront Distribution** - Global CDN with HTTPS, caching, and compression
- **Origin Access Identity** - Secures S3 bucket (blocks direct public access)
- **Route 53** (optional) - Custom domain DNS management

**Estimated Monthly Cost:** $10-30 (depending on traffic)

For detailed architecture information, see [infrastructure.md](./infrastructure.md)

## Customization Guide

### Update Portfolio Information

Edit **[src/pages/Index.tsx](src/pages/Index.tsx)**:

```typescript
// Hero Section (lines 90-107)
<h1>Your Name</h1>
<p>Your Professional Tagline</p>

// Projects Section (lines 29-51)
const projects = [
  {
    title: "Your Project Title",
    description: "Project description",
    technologies: ["AWS Service 1", "AWS Service 2"],
    githubUrl: "https://github.com/...",
    liveUrl: "https://..."
  }
  // Add more projects...
];

// Skills Section (lines 52-76)
const skills = [
  {
    icon: Cloud,
    label: "Your Skill",
    description: "Brief description"
  }
  // Add more skills...
];
```

### Update Contact Information

Edit **[src/components/ContactForm.tsx](src/components/ContactForm.tsx)**:

```typescript
const contacts = [
  {
    icon: Mail,
    label: "Email",
    value: "your.email@example.com",
    href: "mailto:your.email@example.com",
  },
  // Update phone, LinkedIn, GitHub...
];
```

### Customize Colors & Theme

Edit **[tailwind.config.ts](tailwind.config.ts)**:

```typescript
theme: {
  colors: {
    accent: '#your-color-code',
    // Modify space-themed colors...
  },
}
```

Or modify **[src/index.css](src/index.css)** for CSS custom properties.

### Add Resume

1. Add your resume PDF to `public/resume.pdf`
2. Update the Download Resume button in [src/pages/Index.tsx:214](src/pages/Index.tsx#L214)

## Performance Optimization

The site is optimized for speed:

- ✅ Gzip compression of assets (60-80% size reduction)
- ✅ Code splitting with Vite
- ✅ Lazy loading of images
- ✅ Optimized Tailwind CSS build
- ✅ CloudFront CDN caching (on AWS)
- ✅ HTTP/2 multiplexed requests

**Performance Metrics:**
- Lighthouse Score: 95+ (typical)
- First Contentful Paint: <1s
- Time to Interactive: <2s
- Load Time (worldwide avg): ~500ms (via CloudFront)

## Browser Support

- Chrome/Edge: Latest 2 versions
- Firefox: Latest 2 versions
- Safari: Latest 2 versions
- Mobile Safari (iOS): Latest 2 versions
- Mobile Chrome (Android): Latest version

## Accessibility

The site meets WCAG 2.1 AA standards:

- ✅ Semantic HTML structure
- ✅ ARIA labels on interactive elements
- ✅ Color contrast ratios > 4.5:1
- ✅ Keyboard navigation support
- ✅ Focus indicators visible
- ✅ Responsive text sizing

## SEO Best Practices

The portfolio includes:

- ✅ Meta tags (title, description, OG tags)
- ✅ Open Graph tags for social sharing
- ✅ robots.txt for search engine crawling
- ✅ Semantic HTML structure
- ✅ Fast page load times
- ✅ Mobile-friendly design

## Security Features

- ✅ HTTPS enforcement (CloudFront)
- ✅ S3 bucket public access blocked
- ✅ CloudFront Origin Access Identity
- ✅ No database or user data collection
- ✅ CSP headers (can be configured via CloudFront)
- ✅ No sensitive information in static files

## Troubleshooting

### Port 8080 Already in Use

```bash
# Use a different port
npm run dev -- --port 3000
```

### Build Errors

```bash
# Clear node_modules and reinstall
rm -rf node_modules
npm install

# Clear build cache
rm -rf dist
npm run build
```

### TypeScript Errors

```bash
# Ensure TypeScript is updated
npm install --save-dev typescript@latest

# Check for type errors
npx tsc --noEmit
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/your-feature`)
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add your feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/your-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is open source and available under the MIT License.

## Support

For issues and questions:

1. **Lovable Support:** [docs.lovable.dev](https://docs.lovable.dev)
2. **React Documentation:** [react.dev](https://react.dev)
3. **Tailwind CSS:** [tailwindcss.com](https://tailwindcss.com)
4. **AWS Documentation:** [docs.aws.amazon.com](https://docs.aws.amazon.com)
5. **Terraform:** [terraform.io](https://www.terraform.io)

## Quick Reference Links

| Resource | Link |
|----------|------|
| **Lovable Project** | [Project Dashboard](https://lovable.dev/projects/189f3443-d711-4342-8747-b296e134b715) |
| **Deployment Guide** | [deployment.md](./deployment.md) |
| **Infrastructure Docs** | [infrastructure.md](./infrastructure.md) |
| **Vite Docs** | [vitejs.dev](https://vitejs.dev) |
| **React Docs** | [react.dev](https://react.dev) |
| **Tailwind Docs** | [tailwindcss.com](https://tailwindcss.com) |
| **AWS CLI** | [aws.amazon.com/cli](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) |
| **Terraform Docs** | [terraform.io/docs](https://www.terraform.io/docs) |

---

Built with ❤️ for cloud professionals. Happy coding!

Commit message:

Rebrand portfolio from Cloud-only to Cloud & AI
- Updated hero tagline to emphasize Cloud & AI expertise
- Reordered skills to highlight Generative AI first (93% proficiency)
- Changed Full Stack Development to Front End Development (90%)
- Added AI Tools & Frameworks section showcasing Google AI Studio, Claude Code, Stitch, Gemini, AWS Bedrock
- Updated project section heading and descriptions
- Enhanced About section with AI/Cloud focus
- Updated README.md with Cloud & AI branding and messaging
- Build verified with no errors

README.md, after:

# Cloud & AI Voyage Portfolio

A modern, space-themed portfolio website built with React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS. Showcase your AWS cloud and generative AI expertise, projects, and skills with an interactive, responsive design.

## Project Overview

**Cloud & AI Voyage Portfolio** is a professional portfolio website for cloud engineers and AI engineers who leverage generative AI and AWS cloud services. It features a modern design with smooth animations, responsive layout, and direct contact links to social profiles.

### Key Features

- 🚀 **Modern React Stack** - Built with React 18, TypeScript, and Vite
- 🎨 **Beautiful UI** - Tailwind CSS with custom space-themed design
- 📱 **Fully Responsive** - Optimized for desktop, tablet, and mobile
- ✨ **Smooth Animations** - Scroll-triggered fade-in effects and twinkle animations
- 🔧 **Cloud & AI Showcase** - Display AWS cloud projects, AI/ML projects, and expertise
- 🤖 **AI Tools Integration** - Highlight generative AI tools and frameworks used
- 📧 **Direct Contact Links** - Email, phone, LinkedIn, and GitHub integration
- ⚡ **Fast Performance** - Optimized builds with Vite and CloudFront CDN

### Technology Stack

| Category | Technologies |
|----------|---------------|
| **Frontend Framework** | React 18.3.1, TypeScript 5.8.3 |
| **Build Tool** | Vite 5.4.19 |
| **Styling** | Tailwind CSS 3.4.17, PostCSS |
| **UI Components** | shadcn/ui (60+ components), Lucide Icons |
| **Forms & Validation** | React Hook Form 7.61.1, Zod 3.25.76 |
| **Routing** | React Router DOM 6.30.1 |
| **State & Data** | TanStack React Query 5.83.0 |
| **Deployment** | AWS S3, CloudFront, Terraform |

## Getting Started

### Local Development

**Prerequisites:**
- Node.js v18+ ([Install](https://nodejs.org/))
- npm or Bun package manager

**Setup Instructions:**

```bash
# 1. Clone the repository
git clone <YOUR_GIT_URL>
cd cloud-voyage-portfolio

# 2. Install dependencies
npm install
# or with Bun:
bun install

# 3. Start the development server
npm run dev

# 4. Open your browser
# Navigate to http://localhost:8080
```

The development server includes hot module replacement (HMR) for instant updates as you edit files.

### Build for Production

```bash
# Build optimized production files
npm run build

# Preview the production build locally
npm run preview
```

The build output will be in the `dist/` directory, ready to deploy.

## Project Structure

```
cloud-voyage-portfolio/
├── src/
│   ├── components/
│   │   ├── Navigation.tsx        # Top navigation bar
│   │   ├── Starfield.tsx         # Animated starfield background
│   │   ├── ProjectCard.tsx       # Project showcase component
│   │   ├── ContactForm.tsx       # Contact details component
│   │   ├── SkillIcon.tsx         # Skill display component
│   │   └── ui/                   # shadcn/ui components (60+)
│   ├── pages/
│   │   ├── Index.tsx             # Main landing page
│   │   └── NotFound.tsx          # 404 page
│   ├── hooks/
│   │   ├── use-toast.ts          # Toast notifications
│   │   └── use-mobile.tsx        # Mobile detection
│   ├── lib/
│   │   └── utils.ts              # Utility functions
│   ├── assets/
│   │   └── space-hero.jpg        # Hero background image
│   ├── App.tsx                   # Root component
│   ├── main.tsx                  # Entry point
│   └── index.css                 # Global styles
├── public/
│   ├── favicon.ico
│   ├── robots.txt
│   └── placeholder.svg
├── terraform/
│   ├── main.tf                   # AWS infrastructure
│   ├── variables.tf              # Input variables
│   ├── outputs.tf                # Output values
│   └── terraform.tfvars.example  # Configuration template
├── package.json                  # Dependencies & scripts
├── vite.config.ts                # Vite configuration
├── tailwind.config.ts            # Tailwind CSS config
├── tsconfig.json                 # TypeScript config
└── README.md                      # This file
```

## Available Scripts

```bash
npm run dev          # Start development server (port 8080)
npm run build        # Build production files
npm run build:dev    # Build in development mode
npm run preview      # Preview production build locally
npm run lint         # Run ESLint
```

## Portfolio Sections

### Hero Section
Eye-catching introduction with your name, tagline, and call-to-action buttons to view work or get in touch.

### Projects Section
Showcase up to 4 AWS cloud projects with:
- Project title and description
- Technologies used (AWS services, frameworks, tools)
- GitHub and live project links
- Responsive card layout

### About Section
Professional background information with key metrics:
- Years of experience
- Certifications (AWS Cloud Practitioner, CISA, etc.)
- Core competencies
- Professional summary

### Skills Section
Display 6 core skill areas with icons:
- Cloud Computing (AWS Solutions Architecture)
- Cybersecurity (Security & Compliance)
- Networking (Network Architecture)
- Auditing (Compliance Monitoring)
- Technical Support (Customer Success)
- Collaboration (Team Leadership)

### Resume Section
Provide downloadable resume PDF with a prominent call-to-action button.

### Contact Section
Direct contact links including:
- Email address
- Phone number
- LinkedIn profile
- GitHub profile

## Deployment Options

### Option 1: Lovable Platform (Default)

Lovable provides built-in hosting and continuous deployment:

1. Visit [Lovable Project](https://lovable.dev/projects/189f3443-d711-4342-8747-b296e134b715)
2. Click **Share → Publish**
3. Optionally connect a custom domain in Project Settings

Learn more: [Custom Domain Setup](https://docs.lovable.dev/features/custom-domain)

### Option 2: AWS with Terraform (Production)

Deploy to AWS S3 + CloudFront for a scalable, cost-effective solution with CDN, HTTPS, and custom domain support.

**For detailed deployment instructions, see [deployment.md](./deployment.md)**

**Quick start:**

```bash
# 1. Build the site
npm run build

# 2. Setup Terraform variables
cd terraform
cp terraform.tfvars.example terraform.tfvars
# Edit terraform.tfvars with your S3 bucket name

# 3. Deploy infrastructure
terraform init
terraform apply

# 4. Deploy files to S3
aws s3 sync ../dist/ s3://YOUR-BUCKET-NAME/ --delete

# 5. Invalidate CloudFront cache
aws cloudfront create-invalidation \
  --distribution-id YOUR-DISTRIBUTION-ID \
  --paths "/*"

# 6. Access your site
# https://YOUR-CLOUDFRONT-DOMAIN.cloudfront.net
```

## AWS Infrastructure

The Terraform configuration creates:

- **S3 Bucket** - Stores static website files with versioning enabled
- **CloudFront Distribution** - Global CDN with HTTPS, caching, and compression
- **Origin Access Identity** - Secures S3 bucket (blocks direct public access)
- **Route 53** (optional) - Custom domain DNS management

**Estimated Monthly Cost:** $10-30 (depending on traffic)

For detailed architecture information, see [infrastructure.md](./infrastructure.md)

## Customization Guide

### Update Portfolio Information

Edit **[src/pages/Index.tsx](src/pages/Index.tsx)**:

```typescript
// Hero Section (lines 90-107)
<h1>Your Name</h1>
<p>Your Professional Tagline</p>

// Projects Section (lines 29-51)
const projects = [
  {
    title: "Your Project Title",
    description: "Project description",
    technologies: ["AWS Service 1", "AWS Service 2"],
    githubUrl: "https://github.com/...",
    liveUrl: "https://..."
  }
  // Add more projects...
];

// Skills Section (lines 52-76)
const skills = [
  {
    icon: Cloud,
    label: "Your Skill",
    description: "Brief description"
  }
  // Add more skills...
];
```

### Update Contact Information

Edit **[src/components/ContactForm.tsx](src/components/ContactForm.tsx)**:

```typescript
const contacts = [
  {
    icon: Mail,
    label: "Email",
    value: "your.email@example.com",
    href: "mailto:your.email@example.com",
  },
  // Update phone, LinkedIn, GitHub...
];
```

### Customize Colors & Theme

Edit **[tailwind.config.ts](tailwind.config.ts)**:

```typescript
theme: {
  colors: {
    accent: '#your-color-code',
    // Modify space-themed colors...
  },
}
```

Or modify **[src/index.css](src/index.css)** for CSS custom properties.

### Add Resume

1. Add your resume PDF to `public/resume.pdf`
2. Update the Download Resume button in [src/pages/Index.tsx:214](src/pages/Index.tsx#L214)

## Performance Optimization

The site is optimized for speed:

- ✅ Gzip compression of assets (60-80% size reduction)
- ✅ Code splitting with Vite
- ✅ Lazy loading of images
- ✅ Optimized Tailwind CSS build
- ✅ CloudFront CDN caching (on AWS)
- ✅ HTTP/2 multiplexed requests

**Performance Metrics:**
- Lighthouse Score: 95+ (typical)
- First Contentful Paint: <1s
- Time to Interactive: <2s
- Load Time (worldwide avg): ~500ms (via CloudFront)

## Browser Support

- Chrome/Edge: Latest 2 versions
- Firefox: Latest 2 versions
- Safari: Latest 2 versions
- Mobile Safari (iOS): Latest 2 versions
- Mobile Chrome (Android): Latest version

## Accessibility

The site meets WCAG 2.1 AA standards:

- ✅ Semantic HTML structure
- ✅ ARIA labels on interactive elements
- ✅ Color contrast ratios > 4.5:1
- ✅ Keyboard navigation support
- ✅ Focus indicators visible
- ✅ Responsive text sizing

## SEO Best Practices

The portfolio includes:

- ✅ Meta tags (title, description, OG tags)
- ✅ Open Graph tags for social sharing
- ✅ robots.txt for search engine crawling
- ✅ Semantic HTML structure
- ✅ Fast page load times
- ✅ Mobile-friendly design

## Security Features

- ✅ HTTPS enforcement (CloudFront)
- ✅ S3 bucket public access blocked
- ✅ CloudFront Origin Access Identity
- ✅ No database or user data collection
- ✅ CSP headers (can be configured via CloudFront)
- ✅ No sensitive information in static files

## Troubleshooting

### Port 8080 Already in Use

```bash
# Use a different port
npm run dev -- --port 3000
```

### Build Errors

```bash
# Clear node_modules and reinstall
rm -rf node_modules
npm install

# Clear build cache
rm -rf dist
npm run build
```

### TypeScript Errors

```bash
# Ensure TypeScript is updated
npm install --save-dev typescript@latest

# Check for type errors
npx tsc --noEmit
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/your-feature`)
3. Commit changes (`git commit -m 'Add your feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/your-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is open source and available under the MIT License.

## Support

For issues and questions:

1. **Lovable Support:** [docs.lovable.dev](https://docs.lovable.dev)
2. **React Documentation:** [react.dev](https://react.dev)
3. **Tailwind CSS:** [tailwindcss.com](https://tailwindcss.com)
4. **AWS Documentation:** [docs.aws.amazon.com](https://docs.aws.amazon.com)
5. **Terraform:** [terraform.io](https://www.terraform.io)

## Quick Reference Links

| Resource | Link |
|----------|------|
| **Lovable Project** | [Project Dashboard](https://lovable.dev/projects/189f3443-d711-4342-8747-b296e134b715) |
| **Deployment Guide** | [deployment.md](./deployment.md) |
| **Infrastructure Docs** | [infrastructure.md](./infrastructure.md) |
| **Vite Docs** | [vitejs.dev](https://vitejs.dev) |
| **React Docs** | [react.dev](https://react.dev) |
| **Tailwind Docs** | [tailwindcss.com](https://tailwindcss.com) |
| **AWS CLI** | [aws.amazon.com/cli](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/) |
| **Terraform Docs** | [terraform.io/docs](https://www.terraform.io/docs) |

---

Built with ❤️ for cloud professionals. Happy coding!
